https://www.guru99.com/rest-api-interview-question-answers.html

1) What is the RESTful Web services ?
RESTful Web Services are REST Architecture based Web Services. In REST Architecture, everything is a resource. RESTful Web Services provides communication between software applications running on different platforms and frameworks. We can consider web services as code on demand. A RESTful Web Service is a function or method which can be called by sending an HTTP request to a URL, and the service returns the result as the response.

2)REST is an architectural approach, not a protocol. SOAP is a protocol

----Safe method doesn't change anything internally. means in the server (resources)
	Safe methods are methods that can be cached, prefetched without any repercussions to the resource.
  	Idempotent method doesn't change anything externally (response)
  	idempotent HTTP method is a HTTP method that can be called many times without different outcomes.
  	
HTTP Method	Idempotent	Safe
OPTIONS	    yes			yes
GET			yes			yes
HEAD		yes			yes
PUT			yes			no
DELETE		yes			no
POST		no			no
PATCH		no			no

 a = 4+0;  a++;
 The first example is idempotent: no matter how many times we execute this statement, 
 a will always be 4. The second example is not idempotent. Executing this 10 times will 
 result in a different outcome as when running 5 times. 
 Since both examples are changing the value of a, both are non-safe methods.
 
 An idempotent HTTP method is a HTTP method that can be called many times without different outcomes
 
 Q)When we use POST instead of Delete in our rest API then we are snatching power of Idempotency from clien
 Delete is idempotent but POST is not 
 
 Q)- 
GET: Retrieves data from the server. Should have no other effect.
PUT: Replaces target resource with the request payload. Can be used to update or create a new resources.
PATCH: Similar to PUT, but used to update only certain fields within an existing resource.
POST: Performs resource-specific processing on the payload. Can be used for different actions including creating a new resource, uploading a file or submitting a web form.
DELETE: Removes data from the server.
TRACE: Provides a way to test what server receives. It simply returns what was sent.
OPTIONS: Allows a client to get information about the request methods supported by a service. The relevant response header is Allow with supported methods. Also used in CORS as preflight request to inform server about actual request method and ask about custom headers.
HEAD: Returns only the response headers.
CONNECT: Used by browser when it knows it talks to a proxy and the final URI begins with https://. The intent of CONNECT is to allow end-to-end encrypted TLS session, so the data is unreadable to a proxy.

Q) PUT vs POST
PUT method is idempotent whereas POST method is not idempotent.
POST to create a resource , PUT to update the resource.

Q) Advantage of Soap over Rest
It gives more security,SOAP’s support for WS-Security can come in handy.
Another advantage of SOAP is that it offers built-in retry logic to compensate for failed communications
SOAP is highly extensible through other protocols and technologies
 
Q)5. Contenttype vs accept headers 
-- Accept Header tells the API that it is expecting the response in the specified media type e.g. application/json or application/xml.
Accept: application/json
--Content-Type tells the API ab

Q) Difference between Jax RS and Jax WS
 